packages/docs/docs/getting-started/time-events.mdx, before:

---
sidebar_position: 8
slug: /time-events
---

import UI from '@site/src/components/UI';

# Time Events

One of the pain points of creating explanatory animations using code is
**synchronizing them with audio**. Imagine that you'd like a certain animation
to start right after some specific verbal cue. With a code-only solution, you're
left with hard-coding how long (or until which frame) you want to wait.

In Motion Canvas, it could look somewhat like this:

```ts
yield * animationOne();
yield * waitFor(3.1415); // but how long should we wait?
yield * animationTwo();
```

Evidently, this approach can get really tedious. Not only do you need to somehow
find the exact timestamp to wait for, but also each time you modify the
voiceover, you have to go through your code and adjust these hard-coded numbers.

That's why Motion Canvas allows you to edit these delays not through code, but
through the editor. With the use of [`waitUntil`](/api/core/flow#waitUntil) you
can pause the animation without specifying the actual duration:

```ts
yield * animationOne();
yield * waitUntil('event'); // wait for an event called "event"
yield * animationTwo();
```

This will cause the event to appear in the editor. From there, you can drag it
to adjust its timing:

<UI className="image-inline" />

The dark trail behind the event illustrates its duration. It starts at the
moment `waitUntil` was called - this is when the animation will pause. It will
resume when the playhead reaches the event pill.

By default, adjusting a time event will also adjust all events that happen after
it. This is useful when you want to extend or shorten a pause in your voiceover
because correcting the first time event after the pause will also fix all events
after it. You can hold `SHIFT` when editing an event to prevent this from
happening.

## Controlling animation duration

Aside from specifying _when_ something should happen, Time Events can also be used to 
control _how long_ something should last. You can use the 
[`useDuration`](/api/core/utils#useDuration) function to retrieve the duration of an event
and use it in your animation:

```ts
yield* circle().scale(2, useDuration('event'));
```

Commit message:

Clear up the time events documentation
The documentation did not mention registering the event, a crucial step before you can use the event in commands, or see it in the editor.

packages/docs/docs/getting-started/time-events.mdx, after:

---
sidebar_position: 8
slug: /time-events
---

import UI from '@site/src/components/UI';

# Time Events

One of the pain points of creating explanatory animations using code is
**synchronizing them with audio**. Imagine that you'd like a certain animation
to start right after some specific verbal cue. With a code-only solution, you're
left with hard-coding how long (or until which frame) you want to wait.

In Motion Canvas, it could look somewhat like this:

```ts
yield * animationOne();
yield * waitFor(3.1415); // but how long should we wait?
yield * animationTwo();
```

Evidently, this approach can get really tedious. Not only do you need to somehow
find the exact timestamp to wait for, but also each time you modify the
voiceover, you have to go through your code and adjust these hard-coded numbers.

That's why Motion Canvas allows you to edit these delays not through code, but
through the editor. With the use of [`waitUntil`](/api/core/flow#waitUntil) you
can pause the animation without specifying the actual duration:

```ts
yield * animationOne();
yield * waitUntil('event'); // wait for an event called "event"
yield * animationTwo();
```

This will cause the event to appear in the editor. From there, you can drag it
to adjust its timing:

<UI className="image-inline" />

The dark trail behind the event illustrates its duration. It starts at the
moment `waitUntil` was called - this is when the animation will pause. It will
resume when the playhead reaches the event pill.

By default, adjusting a time event will also adjust all events that happen after
it. This is useful when you want to extend or shorten a pause in your voiceover
because correcting the first time event after the pause will also fix all events
after it. You can hold `SHIFT` when editing an event to prevent this from
happening.

## Registering the event

To use the "Time Events" feature in Motion Canvas, it's important to register your event with the scene using the following code:
```ts
useScene().timeEvents.register('event');
```

This line should be added before calling the waitUntil function.

## Controlling animation duration

Aside from specifying _when_ something should happen, Time Events can also be used to 
control _how long_ something should last. You can use the 
[`useDuration`](/api/core/utils#useDuration) function to retrieve the duration of an event
and use it in your animation:

```ts
yield* circle().scale(2, useDuration('event'));
```
